>> Ifill: RESCUE CREWS SIFTED
THROUGH THE RUBBLE IN MOORE,
OKLAHOMA, CONTINUING A DESPERATE
SEARCH FOR SURVIVORS OF
YESTERDAY'S MONSTER TORNADO.
GOOD EVENING.
I'M GWEN IFILL.
>> Brown: AND I'M JEFFREY BROWN.
ON THE NEWSHOUR TONIGHT, WE GET
THE LATEST ON THE DEVASTATION
CAUSED BY THE TWISTER THAT
CLAIMED MORE THAN TWO DOZEN
LIVES AND INJURED MORE THAN 200.
>> Ifill: THEN, JUDY WOODRUFF
REPORTS ON A SENATE PANEL
GRILLING TWO FORMER I.R.S.
COMMISSIONER ON HOW THE AGENCY
TARGETED CONSERVATIVE GROUPS.
>> Brown: WE EXAMINE CHARGES THE
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT OVERREACHED
ITS AUTHORITY BY KI
LEAKS.
>> Ifill: APPLE'S C.E.O. FACED
BLISTERING QUESTIONS ON CAPITOL
HILL TODAY.
MARGARET WARNER LOOKS AT WHETHER
THE TECH GIANT USED OFFSHORE
COMPANIES TO SKIRT PAYING
BILLIONS IN TAXES.
>> Brown: AND WE CLOSE WITH
MILES O'BRIEN ON THE LEGACY OF
ASTRONAUT SALLY RIDE AND HER
GOAL TO GET MORE GIRLS TO STUDY
SCIENCE, TECHNOLOGY ENGINEERING
ANMATHD .
>> TO GET YOUNG GIRLS INTERESTED
IN THE STEM FIELDS, THAT WAS HER
LIFE'S MISSION.
YOU TALK TO A LOT OF ASTRONAUTS,
THEIR MISSION WAS S TO GO TO
SPACE.
HER MISSION WAS A SPRINGBOARD
FOR SOMETHING ELSE.
>> Ifill: THAT'S ALL AHEAD ON
TONIGHT'S NEWSHOUR.
>> Ifill: THE PEOPLE OF MOORE,
OKLAHOMA, BEGAN THE LONG CLIMB
BACK TODAY FROM CATASTROPHE.
AUTHORITIES LABORED TO CLEAR
WRECKAGE IN THE SHATTERED SUBURB
OUTSIDE OKLAHOMA CITY, AND THE
DEATH TOLL STOOD AT 24,
INCLUDING NINE CHILDREN.
OFFICIALS SAID THE NUMBERS COULD
RISE HIGHER YET IN THE WAKE OF A
TORNADO THAT WAS ONE OF THE MOST
POWERFUL EVER.
THE SCENE THAT MET JASON LEGER
S HEA EMERGED FROM HIS CELLAR ON
MONDAY EVENING UNSCATHED WAS ONE
OF TOTAL DESTRUCTION.
>> THE LORD GIVETH AND THE LORD
TAKETH AWAY.
>> Ifill: TODAY, SIMILAR SCENES
GREETED THOSE WHO HAD FLED AND
RETURNED TO SURVEY WHA IFT,
ANYTHING, WAS LEFT OF THEIR
HOMES.
>> IT'S GOING TO TAKE TIME TO
REBUILD, THE FAMILIES.
YOU LOOK AT YOU SEE THE MOVIES
AND EVERYTHING, BUT WHEN YOU ARE
ACTUALLY STANDING THERE, YEAH...
>> IT'S HARD.
IT'S HARD, BUT, YOU KNOW, I KNOW
THAT THE LORD IS GOING TO
PROVIDE.
HE'S PROVIDED BEFORE.
HE HAS SHOWN HIS POWER TO US
BEFORE.
>> Ifill: IN THE IMMEDIATE
AFTERMATH, DOZENS OF PEOPLE WERE
RESCUED FROM THE RUBBLE OF HOMES
THAT COLLAPSED AROUND THEM.
THE GRUELING SEARCH FOR MORE
SURVIVORS WENT ON THROUGH THE
NIGHT.
NATIONAL GUARD TROOPS JOINED IN,
GOING HOUSE-TO-HOUSE, SHINING
FLASHLIGHTS INTO THE WRKAGECE.
>> EACH OF OUR GUYS WILL HAVE
MULTIBAND COMMUNICATION RADIOS.
WE CAN TALK TO AIRCRAFT, WE CAN
TALK TO PERSONNEL ON THE GROUND.
THERMAL IMAGES ALLOW US TO SEE
COLD, WARM BODIES, PEOPLE IN THE
DARK.
NIGHT VISIOEQUIN PMENT, WE CAN
SEE IN THE DARK, LOW-LIGHT
INSTANCES.
>> Ifill: FIRE AND POLICE CREWS
FROM AROUND THE REGION JACK-
HAMMERED THEIR WAY THROUGH THE
DEBRIS.
BUCKET BY BUCKET, THEY PRIED IT
AWAY, LOOKING FOR ANY SIGN OF
LIFE UNDERNEATH.
THE TWISTER, ESTIMATED AT UP TO
TWO MILES WIDE, LAID WASTE TO A
20-MILE STRETCH IN 40 MINUTES.
IN THAT TIME, IT REACHED EF-5
STATUS, THE MOST POWERFUL, WITH
WINDS OF AT LEAST 200 MILES AN
HOUR.
MANY TOLHARRD OWING STORIES OF
SURVIVAL.
>> IT WAS COMING STRAIGHT
TOWARDS US BECAUSE IT'S HEADING
EAST RIGHT UP THE MIDDLE OF THE
ROAD.
SO, AT THAT POINT, IT'S TIME FOR
US TO JUST START MAKING MOVES.
SO, WE GO A LITTLE BIT FARTHER
DOWN THE ROAD-- I'D SAY ABOUT
100 METERS-- AND AS IT'S COMING
UP FROM BEHIND US, I SAY,
"KATIE, GET IN THE STORM DITCH."
WE GO IN THE VERY MIDDLE OF THE
TUNNEL ITSELF AS THE TORNADO
PASSES OVER THE HIGHWAY.
>> Ifill: AMONG THE SURVIVORS,
SCHOOL CHILDREN WHO WERE JUST
ABOUT TO BE DISMISSED FOR THE
DAY WHEN THE TORNADO HIT A
LITTLE BEFORE 3:00 P.M.
>> I WAS ON THE GROUND, AND I
JUST... MY EARS JUST WENT
"WHOOO," AND I COULDN'T HEAR
ANYTHING EXCEPT CRACKING AND
KIDS SCREAMING.
>> THE TORNADO WENT IN, AND, I
WAS SO AFRAID THAT I WAS HANGING
ONTO ONE OF THE DESKS.
AND I FELL BACK, AND THEN ALL
THE DIRT START GETTING ON MY
EYES AND ON MY CLOTHES.
>> Ifill: BRIARWOOD ELEMENTARY
WAS ALL BUT DESTROYED.
MIRACULOUSLY, EVERYONE SURVIVED.
BUT AT NEARBY PLAZA TOWERS
ELEMENTARY, SEVEN CHILDREN LOST
THEIR LIVES.
THE SUPERINTENDENT OF MOORE
PUBLIC SCHOOLS, SUSAN PIERCE,
SAID TODAY THEY FOLLOWED
DISASTER DRILLS TO THE LETTER.
>> YESTERDAY, OUR ADMINISTRATOR
STAFF, TEACHERS AND STUDEN PUTTS
OUR CRISIS PLAN INTO ACTION
IMMEDIATELY.
WE MONITORED THE WEATHER
THROUGHOUT THE DAY, AND WHEN IT
WAS TIME TO SHELTER, WE DID JUST
THAT.
A TORNADO'S PATH IS HIGHLY
UNPREDICTABLE, BUT, WITH VERY
LITTLE NOTICE, WE IMPLEMENTED
OUR TORNADO SHELTER PROCEDURES
AT EVERY SCHOOL SITE.
>> Ifill: IN ADDITION TO THE
SCHOOLS, A LOCAL HOSPITAL WAS
RAVAGED AND COUNTLESS HOMES WERE
FLATTENED.
OKLAHOMA GOVERNOR MARY FALLIN
VIEWED THE DESTRUCTION FROM THE
AIR TODAY.
>> IT IS VERY WIDE.
IT IS HARD TO LOOK AT BECAUSE
THERE IS SO MUCH DEBRIS ON THE
GROUND ITSELF.
IN MANY PLACES, HOMES WERE
ABSOLUTELY DESTROYED, TAKEN
AWAY.
THERE'S JUST STICKS AND BRICKS,
BASICALLY.
IT'S HARD TO TELL IF THERE WAS A
STRUCTURE THERE OR NOT.
IF YOU GET INTO SOME OF THE
MAJOR NEIGHBORHOODS, YOU CAN'T
TELL WHERE THE STREETS WERE.
THE STREET SIGNS ARE GONE.
>> Ifill: AND IN WASHINGTON,
PRESIDENT OBAMA PROMISED THE
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT WOULD DO
EVERYTHING IT COULD TO GET THE
TOWN BACK ON ITS FEET.
>> THE PEOPLE OF MOORE SHOULD
KNOW THAT THEIR COUNTRY WILL
REMAIN ON THE GROUND, THERE FOR
THEM, BESIDE THEM, AS LONG AS IT
TAKES.
FOR THERE ARE HOMES AND SCHOOLS
TO REBUILD, BUSINESSES AND
HOSPITALS TO REOPEN.
>> Ifill: IN THE MEANTIME, A
CARAVAN OF SEMI-TRUCKS LOADED
WITH BULLDOZERS AND DIGGERS
ARRIVED IN MOORE TODAY TO DO THE
HEAVY LIFTING.
SEARCH DOGS WERE ALSO ON HAND AS
TEAMS PLANNED TO KEEP LOOKING
FOR ANYONE WHO MIGHT YET BE
FOUND IN THE RUINS.
>> Brown: JAY NEWTON-SMALL IS IN
MOORE FOR "TIME" MAGAZINE.
I SPOKE WITH HER A SHORT TIME
AGO.
JAY NEWTON-SMALL, THANKS SO MUCH
FOR JOINING US.
CAN YOU TELL US, DO YOU HAVE A
SENSE OF WHERE THEY ARE IN TERMS
OF THE SEARCH FOR SURVIVORS AT
THIS POINT?
>> SURE.
I SPOKE WITH THE LOCAL MAYOR
HERE IN MOORE AND HE SAID THAT
THEY'RE ACTUALLY NOT EXPECTING
TO FIND ANY MORE BODIES, AT
LEAST HE HOPES SO.
THEY'RE NOT GOING TO COMPLETELY
RULE IT OUT BUT THEY DO BELIEVE
GIVEN THEY'VE DONE TWO SWEEPS
AND BY NIGHTTIME THEY'VE DONE
THREE SWEEPS WITH SNIFFER DOGS
THAT THEY DON'T THINK THEY WILL
FIND ANY MORE PEOPLE, AT LEAST
NO MORE PEOPLE ALIVE AND THIS
WILL BE A RECOVERY OPERATION
FROM HERE ON IN.
AND THAT'S A GOOD THING IN THE
SENSE THAT, YOU KNOW, HOPEFULLY
THEY'LL GET A REAL SENSE OF THE
NUMBERS OF MISSING PEOPLE AND
THEY CAN RULE OUT ANY MORE
DEATHS.
>> Brown: YOU'VE BEEN WATCHING
SOME OF THESE SWEEPS, I GATHER.
IS IT LITERALLY DOOR TO DOOR OR
WRECKAGE TO WRECKAGE?
HOW ARE THEY DOING IT?
>> IT IS LITERALLY DOOR TO DOOR
AND WRECKAGE TO WRECKAGE AND YOU
CAN SEE THE Xs MARKED ON THE
DIFFERENT CARS AND BUILDINGS AND
THEY DO THEM IN COLOR CODE SO
ONE PASS MEANS A BLACK X,
ANOTHER TWO PASSES MEANS A RED X
SO THAT WAY THEY KNOW THE PLACE
HAS BEEN SEARCHED AND THEY'VE
LOOKED IN EVERY POSSIBLE CORNER
AND THERE ISN'T ANYONE INSIDE
AND THE TEAMS CAN MOVE ON.
>> Brown: YOU'VE BEEN WITH THESE
RESPONDER TEAMS.
GIVE US A SENSE OF WHAT YOU'VE
SEEN.
WHAT DOES IT FEEL LIKE AND LOOK
LIKE?
>> YOU KNOW, WITH TORNADOS THE
MOST AMAZING THING IS THE HIT OR
MISS NATURE OF IT.
SO YOU'LL HAVE BLOCKS WHERE ONE
WHOLE SIDE OF THE BLOCK THE
HOUSES A
THE OTHER SIDE THEY'RE
DECIMATED.
AND THIS IS H HAS BEEN AN
UNUSUALLY POWERFUL TORNADO IN
THAT IT'S NOT JUST THAT THEY'RE
PANCAKED, IT'S LIKE LICKED
CLEAN.
THE ONLY THING YOU SEE ON THE
PLOT IS THE SHADOW OF WHERE THE
HOUSE ONCE WAS AND A BUNCH OF
BROWN GRASS THAT WAS ONCE THERE
AND IT'S THE ONLY THING THAT
DELINEATES THAT THE HOUSE WAS
THERE AND THERE'S DEBRIS
EVERYWHERE ELSE.
IT'S REALLY JUST -- THE POWER OF
THIS STORM IS STUNNING IN THIS
CASE AND YOU SEE THAT WITH
SEARCH-AND-RESCUE TEAMS.
THEY ARE REALLY LOOKING UNDER
EVERY PLANK OF WOOD JUST IN CASE
SOMEBODY IS HIDING BEHIND IT.
YOU HEAR STORIES ABOUT A STUDENT
IN THE SCHOOL WHO WAS FOUND
UNDERNEATH A CHALK BOARD THAT
WAS LAYING DOWN.
SO IT'S REALLY, LIKE, EVERY NOOK
AND CRANNY, THAT'S WHAT THEY'RE
SEARCHING.
>> Brown: AND WHAT ARE THE
PEOPLE THERE TELLING YOU ABOUT
THEIR OWN -- EITHER THEIR
EXPERIENCES OF IT COMES OR THEIR
OWN SURVIVAL STORIES?
>> I MEAN, THAT'S ALSO BEEN
AMAZING.
I SPOKE TO ONE YOUNG MAN WHO SAW
IT COMING, RAN INTO A 7-ELEVEN
TO WARN PEOPLE TO TAKE SHELTER,
HE LEFT, DROVE OFF, WAS RACING
AWAY FROM THE TORNADO, ALL FOUR
PEOPLE IN THAT 7-ELEVEN DIED.
HE TOOK SHELTER UNDER A BRIDGE,
HE MANAGED TO SURVIVE.
THEY TALK ABOUT THE ROARING OF
THE AIR, HOW INCREDIBLY POWERFUL
IT SOUNDS AND YOU THINK NOTHING
WILL BE LEFT WHEN YOU COME OUT
AND SURPRISE, SURPRISE, EITHER
YOUR HOUSE IS STILL THERE OR, IN
FACT, THERE IS THERE REALLY IS
NOTHING LEFT.
AND THEY DO TALK ABOUT JUST THE
DEBRIS THAT YOU SEE AND THE
FORCE OF WHICH HAVE THE DEBRIS
IS EMBEDDED INTO CARS AND INTO
STONE WALLS, INTO CONCRETE.
IT REALLY JUST FLINGS CARS AND
SMASHES THEM LIKE LITTLE TOYS,
IT'S JUST STUNNING THE POWER OF
NATURE THAT YOU SEE.
I THINK A LOT OF PEOPLE YOU SEE
WALKING AROUND ARE KIND OF DAZED
BECAUSE THEY'RE SHOCKED BY IT.
>> Brown: THAT'S WHAT I WAS
WONDERING.
IS ANYBODY ABLE TO THINK ABOUT
WHAT NOW, WHAT NEXT, WHAT DO
THEY DO?
>> I MEAN, A LOT OF PEOPLE THIS
AFTERNOON I SAW FOR THE FIRST
TIME REALLY STARTING TO CLEAN UP
TAKE OUT BROOMS AND START TO
SWEEP AND IT'S SUCH A LITTLE
THING TO BE ABLE TO CLEAR YOUR
WHEN YOURUT IT'S IMPORTANT TO
HOUSE IS ERECT BUT YOUR DRIVEWAY
IS CLEAN SOMEHOW IT'S REALLY --
I SPOKE TO ONE WOMAN SPEAKING
HER DRIVEWAY OF THIS HOUSE THAT
HAD BEEN TOTALLY RUINED AND SHE
WAS LIKE "AT LEAST I KNOW I
WON'T GATE FLAT TIRE WITH MY CAR
AND IT'S THE BEGINNING, IT'S THE
FIRST STEP."
SO THAT'S WHAT PEOPLE ARE
LOOKING TO DO IS THE FIRST STEP
THEY'LL TAKE TO REBUILDING THIS
TOWN.
>> Brown: LET ME ASK YOU VERY
BRIEFLY, JAY.
DOES IT LOOK AS THOUGH THEY HAVE
ENOUGH RESOURCES THERE IN TERMS
OF THE RELIEF EFFORT?
>> THE RELIEF EFFORT HAS
ACTUALLY BEEN REALLY IMPRESSIVE
AND, YOU KNOW, THE -- EVERY
OFFICIAL THAT I SPOKE TO FROM
THE GOVERNOR TO THE MAYOR HAS
SAID THAT FEMA HAS BEEN REALLY
AMAZING IN THIS CASE AND HAS
PROVIDED WHATEVER IS NEEDED AND
CUT THROUGH RED TAPE AND YOU SEE
THAT WITH THE SEARCH TEAMS OUT
THERE.
THERE'S A COMBINATION OF
HOMELAND SECURITY, FEMA, AS WELL
AS LOCAL POLICE AND STATE POLICE
AND YOU SEE THAT ALSO IN TERMS
OF THERE'S WATER EVERYWHERE,
THERE'S VANS GOING AROUND
SUPPLYING FIRST -- YOU KNOW,
FIRST RESPONDERS AS WELL AS
LOCALS WITH FOOD, WITH WATER,
ANY KIND OF SHELTER THAT'S
NEEDED THEY'VE BEEN SUPPLYING.
SO IT REALLY HAS BEEN A VERY
GOOD RESPONSE SO FAR AND THAT
SEEMS TO BE THE UNIFIED
RESPONSE.
>> Brown: JAY NEWTON-SMALL OF
"TIME" MAGAZINE, THANKS SO MUCH.
>> THANK YOU.
SERGEANT LEWIS, THANKS SO MUCH
FOR JOINING US.
WE HEARD YOU'RE DOING TWO AND
THREE SWEEPS OF THE AREA.
IS THERE STILL SOME HOPE OF
FINDING PEOPLE OR DO YOU HAVE A
SENSE THAT MOST ARE ACCOUNTED
FOR AT THIS POINT?
>> WELL, WE'VE ACTUALLY DONE ONE
COMPLETE SWEEP.
WE'RE IN THE PROCESS OF OUR
SECOND SWEEP.
WE ACTUALLY ARE ALSO STILL
WORKING ON PLAZA TOWERS
ELEMENTARY SCHOOL.
WE HAVE LARGE EQUIPMENT THERE
NOW THAT WE'RE TRYING TO MOVE
SOME OF THE LARGER DEBRIS OUT OF
THE WAY.
THERE'S STILL 20 TO 30-FOOT PILE
HIGH AT THE ELEMENTARY SCHOOL
THAT THEY'VE GOT TO THE GO
THROUGH AND TO GO FROM ONE END
OF THE CITY TO THE OTHER IT
TAKES PRETTY MUCH AN ENTIRE DAY.
SO WE'RE ABOUT HALFWAY THROUGH
THE SECOND SWEEP.
THERE IS A POSSIBILITY THAT WE
COULD FIND SOMEONE POSSIBLY
STILL A STORM CELLAR OR SAFE
ROOM THAT'S JUST BEEN COVERED
UP.
LAST NIGHT MOST OF THE SEARCH
WAS DONE IN THE DARK.
NOW WITH THE LIGHT AND WE ALSO
HAVE A LOT MORE HEAVY EQUIPMENT
WE'RE MORE EQUIPPED AT DOING THE
SEARCH CORRECTLY.
>> Brown: TELL US A LITTLE BIT
MORE ABOUT WHAT ELSE IS
HAPPENING IN THE COMMUNITY TODAY
IN PARTICULAR SHELTERS, FOOD,
AND AID.
SOMEHOW THAT GOING FOR PEOPLE?
>> WE ARE -- JUST IN THE PAST
WE'VE HAD ENORMOUS SUPPORT HERE
IN THE CITY OF MOORE AND IT'S
SHOWING AGAIN.
YOU KNOW, THERE'S LITERALLY
CASES AND CASES OF WATER BEING
BROUGHT TO THE VOLUNTEERS.
I KNOW AT THE DIFFERENT PLACES
WE HAVE FOR SHELTER WE HAVE
NUMEROUS THINGS BEING DROPPED
OFF FOR THE VICTIMS OF THIS
STORM BUT IT'S JUST AN
OUTPOURING OF SUPPORT IN ALL
DIFFERENT WAYS: VOLUNTEER, MONEY
BRINGING THINGS.
JUST EVERYTHING.
WE'RE PRETTY MUCH OVERWHELMING
THE WITH SUPPORT THAT WE HAVE.
>> Brown: TELL ME, THIS IS YOUR
COMMUNITY, WHAT DID YOU SEE
TODAY AS YOU WENT AROUND?
>> WELL, IT'S PRETTY HARD TO
BELIEVE.
THIS IS -- I'VE GROWN UP HERE MY
ENTIRE LIFE, WORKED HERE FOR 13
YEARS, WENT TO HIGH SCHOOL HERE.
TO SEE THE CENTER OF THE CITY
PRETTY MUCH FROM BORDER TO
BORDER ALMOST WIPED CLEAN IS --
I DON'T KNOW THAT IT'S STILL SET
IN FOR A LOT OF OFFICERS FROM
THE MOORE AREA.
WE'VE BEEN SO BUSY RUNNING HERE
AND THERE JUST TRYING TO DO OUR
JOB, I THINK IT WILL TAKE A
COUPLE DAYS TO SET IN.
BUT IT'S -- WHEN YOU REALLY STOP
IS WHENEVER IT KIND OF GETS TO
YOU AND IT'S EXTREMELY UPSETTING
TO SEE WHAT PEOPLE ARE GOING
THROUGH.
IT'S DEVASTATING.
>> Brown: OFFICIALS EARLIER
TODAY HAD SAID THAT THE DEATH
TOLL -- THE DEATH TOLL STILL
COULD RISE.
IS THAT STILL THE THINKING AT
THIS POINT?
>> THERE'S A POSSIBILITY JUST
FOR THE FACT -- THE SIZE OF THIS
DISASTER IS SO ENORMOUS.
THE AMOUNT OF DEBRIS THAT HAS
PILED UP, IT'S REALLY HARD TO BE
100% UNTIL YOU HAVE THE
SEARCH-AND-RESCUE DOGS SEARCH
NEARLY -- YOU KNOW, FROM ONE
SIDE OF THE CITY TO THE OTHER.
WE HAVE SO MANY PLACES THAT
PEOPLE COULD STILL BE.
IT'S HARD TO SAY 100% THAT WE'VE
FOUND EVERYBODY.
>> Brown: SERGEANT JEREMY LEWIS
OF THE MOORE POLICE DEPARTMENT.
OUR CONDOLENCES TO YOUR
COMMUNITY.
GOOD LUCK TO YOU AND THANKS SO
MUCH FOR TALKING TO US.
>> THANK YOU.
>> Brown: JOINING US LIVE IN
BOULDER, COLORADO, BOB HENSON, A
METEOROLOGIST FOR THE NATIONAL
CENTER FOR ATMOSPHERIC RESEARCH.
EVEN AS THE RESCUE CONTINUES,
WHAT CAN YOU TELL US ABOUT THE
SIZE AND FORCE OF THIS TORNADO
AND WHAT CAUSED IT TO BE SO
POWERFUL?
>> WELL, IT WAS AN EXTREMELY
POWERFUL TORNADO, NOW RATED AT
EF-5 ON THE ENHANCED FUJITA
SCALE.
THAT PLACES HIT IN THE TOP ONE
TENTH OF ONE PERCENT OF ALL
TORNADOS.
THE U.S. USUALLY GETS ABOUT
1,200 OR SO TORNADOS IN A
PARTICULAR YEAR AND THERE'S
USUALLY ONLY ABOUT ONE ON
AVERAGE THIS REACH THIS IS
STRENGTH.
IN TERMS OF WHAT CAUSED IT TO BE
SO STRONG, THERE ARE A FEW DAYS
EACH YEAR THAT HAVE THE GENERAL
CONDITIONS THAT LEAD TO STRONG
TORNADO.
WARM MOIST UNSTABLE AIR NEAR THE
SURFACE, COLDER AIR ALOFT, ALSO
WIND SHEAR, WHICH IS WHEN THE
WINDS ARE BLOWING ONE DIRECTION
BELOW AND A DIFFERENT DIRECTION
ALOFT AND THAT IMPARTS ETH AIR
WITH A SPIN THAT CAN GET SUCKED
UP INTO A THUNDERSTORM.
AND THEN FINALLY THAT ROTATION
IS CONCENTRATED IN THE TORNADO
AND THERE'S SOME MYSTERY ABOUT
WHAT MAKES THAT HAPPEN.
SO THE CONDITIONS ARE THERE ON A
NUMBER OF DAYS AND IT'S STILL A
LITTLE BIT DIFFICULT TO SAY, FOR
EXAMPLE, THE DAY AHEAD OF TIME
WHICH DAYS WILL PRODUCE AN EF-5.
IT WAS APPARENT WITHIN A COUPLE
OF HOURS THAT THE POTENTIAL FAR
BAD TORNADO WAS DEVELOPING
QUICKLY.
>> Brown: WELL, I WANT TO PURSUE
THAT A LITTLE BIT MORE.
HOW WELL WAS THIS TRACKED AHEAD
OF TIME AND WHAT CAN YOU TELL
TODAY ABOUT HOW MUCH WARNING AND
WIND PEOPLE GOT -- WHEN PEOPLE
GOT THE WARNING.
>> WELL, THE TORNADO WAS VERY
WELL FORECAST.
WITHIN ABOUT AN HOUR IT WAS
CLEAR SEVERE THUNDERSTORMS WERE
DEVELOPING.
ABOUT TENSOR MINUTES BEFORE THE
TORNADO TOUCHED DOWN THERE WAS A
TORNADO WARNING ISSUED WITH THE
EXPECTATION IT WAS GOING TO
TOUCHDOWN.
IT THEN MOVED INTO MOORE ABOUT
TEN MINUTES AFTER TOUCHDOWN.
SO PEOPLE OF MOORE HAD ANYWHERE
FROM MAYBE TEN OR 15 TO 20
MINUTES OF THE TORNADO'S
ARRIVAL.
IT WAS ALSO -- SEEMED A FEW DAYS
OUT THERE WAS A POTENTIAL FOR
SEVERE WEATHER.
A PRODUCT CALLED CONVECTIVE
OUTLOOKS ARE ISSUED BY THE NOAA
STORM PREDICTION CENTER AND
THOSE ARE OUTLINED IN A BROAD
BRUSH WAY WHICH PARTS OF THE
COUNTRY COULD SEE SEVERE
WEATHER.
SO YOU COULD SEE SEVERAL DAYS
OUT THE POTENTIAL AND THEN IN
THE IMMEDIATE COUPLE HOURS YOU
COULD SEE THE CONDITIONS LINING
UP FOR SPECIFICALLY IN THE
MOORE/OKLAHOMA CITY AREA.
THE TRICKY PART IS MAYBE SIX TO
24 HOURS OUT AND MY LAB IN PART
IS PART OF A PROJECT RIGHT NOW
WHICH IS SPECIFICALLY TRYING TO
PROVE PREDICTIONS IN THAT SIX TO
24-HOUR WINDOW.
>> Brown: WHAT ABOUT THE WEATHER
SITUATION TODAY IN OKLAHOMA AND
ELSEWHERE BECAUSE THERE WERE
FEARS OF CONTINUED -- OF MORE
TORNADOS.
>> WELL, THIS IS A GOOD EXAMPLE
OF THAT BECAUSE AS RECENTLY AS
YESTERDAY IT LOOKED LIKE THERE
WAS A CHANCE FOR MORE
SIGNIFICANT TORNADO ACTION
TODAY.
IT NOW-- AT LEAST THE LAST I
LOOKED-- WAS LOOKING MORE LIKE
KIND OF GARDEN VARIETY
THUNDERSTORMS, MAYBE SOME SEVERE
THUNDERSTORMS BUT PROBABLY NOT
THE KIND OF TORNADOS LIKE WE SAW
YESTERDAY.
SO THE MORE WE CAN IMPROVE
CALLING THOSE CHARACTERS OF
THUNDERSTORMS A DAY OR SO OUT,
THAT WILL BE FANTASTIC.
BUT CERTAINLY IN TERMS OF THE
WARNINGS THAT ARE ISSUED AN HOUR
BEFORE AND THE WARNING SYSTEM,
IT WORKED FLAWLESSLY, I WOULD
SAY, IN THE MOORE AREA.
THE WORD GOT TO PEOPLE.
THERE'S STILL WORK TO BE DONE,
WE CAN HAVE PEOPLE INTERPRET
WARNINGS AND HAVING A PLACE TO
GO.
I MEAN, MANY PLACES IN OKLAHOMA
DON'T HAVE BASEMENTS PARTIALLY
BECAUSE OF THE SOIL TYPE AND SO
PEOPLE DON'T NECESSARILY HAVE A
PLACE TO TAKE SHELTER EVEN IF
THEY KNOW A VIOLENT TORNADO IS
ON THE WAY.
>> Brown: BOB HENLEY, THANK YOU
SO MUCH.
>> YOU'RE WELCOME.
>> Ifill: ONLINE, YOU CAN WATCH
OUR REPORFROMT  1999, WHEN
ANOTHER TORNADO DEVASTATED THE
TOWN OF MOORE.
STILL TO COME ON THE NEWSHOUR:
WHO KNEW WHAT ANDHEN  WAT THE
I.R.S. AND THE WHITE HOUSE; THE
DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE TRACKS
REPORTERS TO PROSECUTE LEAKS;
APPLE DEFENDS OFFSHORE TAX
HAVENS; AND PROMOTING WOMEN IN
THE SCIENCES.
BUT FIRST, WITH THE OTHER NEWS
OF THE DAY.
HERE'S HARI SREENIVASAN.
>> Sreenivasan: A FEDERAL
APPEALS COURT TODAY REFUSED TO
ORDER THE RELEASE OF PHOTOS AND
VIDEO OF OSAMA BIN LADEN FROM
THE U.S. RAID THAT KILLED HIM IN
2011.
THE OBAMA ADMINISTRATION ARGUED
THE IMAGES COULD REVEAL
INTELLIGENCE METHODS AND TRIGGER
VIOLENCE AGAINST AMERICANS.
TODAY, A THREE-JUDGE PANEL IN
WASHINGTON AGREED.
IT REJECTED A BID BY THE
CONSERVATIVE WATCHDOG GROUP
JUDICIAL DEFENSE TO MAKE THE
PICTURES PUBLIC.
IN SYRIA, THE BATTLE RAGED FOR A
THIRD DAY IN A KEY TOWN NEAR THE
BORDER WITH LEBANON.
GOVERNMENT FORCES AND HEZBOLLAH
FIGHTERS FROM LEBANON HAVE BEEN
FIGHTING TO RETAKE QUSAIR, WHICH
REBELS HAVE CONTROLLED FOR MORE
THAN A YEAR.
REBEL VIDEO TODAY CAPTURED THE
AFTERMATH OF A GOVERNMENT AIR
STRIKE ON QUSAIR.
IT SHOWED HEAVILY DAMAGED
BUILDINGS AND RUBBLE IN THE
STREETS, AS WELL AS THE INTERIOR
OF A MOSQUE HIT IN THE ATTACK.
THE GUARDIAN COUNCIL OF IRAN
TODAY BARRED A FORMER PRESIDENT
POPULAR WITH REFORMERS FROM
RUNNING AGAIN IN NEXT MONTH'S
ELECTION.
AKBAR HASHEMI RAFSANJANI IS NOW
78 YEARS OLD.
HE HAS CRITICIZED THE GOVERNMENT
FOR CRUSHING PROTESTS AGAINST
THE DISPUTED PRESIDENTIAL
ELECTION IN 2009.
ALSO BARRED FROM RUNNING TODAY,
A TOP AIDE TO OUTGOING PRESIDENT
MAHMOUD AHMADINEJAD, WHO'S
REPEATEDLY CLASHED WITH THE
RULING ISLAMIC CLERICS.
GUATEMALA'S HIGHEST COURT HAS
OVERTURNED THE GENOCIDE
CONVICTION OF FORMER DICTATOR
EFRAIN RIOS MONTT.
THE FORMER GENERAL WAS CONVICTED
THIS MONTH IN THE KILLINGS OF
MORE THAN 1,700 ETHNIC MAYANS,
DURING THE EARLY 1980s, BUT LAST
NIGHT THE HIGH COURT DECLARED
THE TRIAL SHOULD HAVE BEEN
STOPPED EARLIER TO RESOLVE
DEFENSE APPEALS.
RIOS MONTT'S ATTORNEY HAILED THE
RULING.
>> ( translated ): THE RIGHT OF
DEFENSE WAS VIOLATED CONSTANTLY,
WHICH IS SACRED.
IT IS THE A CONSTITUTIONAL RULE.
NO OTHER SUPERIOR RULE EXISTS.
IT IS AN INSTITUTION OF LAW AND
IT HAS TO BE COMPLIED WITH.
MONTT.
>> Sreenivasan: THE COURT
ORDERED THE TRIAL TO RETURN TO
WHERE IT WAS IN MID-APRIL.
FOR NOW, RIOS MONTT REMAINS IN A
MILITARY HOSPITAL.
HE IS 86 YEARS OLD.
THE HEAD OF J.P. MORGAN CHASE,
JAMIE DIMON, SURVIVED A BID
TODAY TO STRIP HIM OF ONE OF HIS
JOBS.
SHAREHOLDERS AT THE BANK'S
ANNUAL MEETING VOTED TO KEEP
DIMON AS BOTH CHAIRMAN AND
C.E.O.
HE HAD BEEN CRITICIZED AFTER THE
BANK SUFFERED A $6 BILLION LOSS
LAST YEAR ON COMPLEX DEBT
SECURITIES.
ON WALL STREET, THE DOW JONES
INDUSTRIAL AVERAGE GAINED
52 POINTS TO CLOSE AT 15,387.
THE NASDAQ ROSE FIVE POINTS TO
CLOSE AT 3,502.
THOSE ARE SOME OF THE DAY'S
MAJOR STORIES.
NOW, BACK TO JEFF.
>> Brown: THE DRAMA SURROUNDING
THE INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE
SHIFTED TO A NEW SCENE TODAY.
THE SENATE FINANCE COMMITTEE
HEARD FROM THE MAN WHO RAN THE
AGENCY UNTIL LAST FALL, AND HIS
SUCCESSOR.
JUDY WOODRUFF HAS OUR REPORT.
>> DO YOU SWEAR THE TESTIMONY
YOU'RE ABOUT TO GIVE IS THE
TRUTH?
>> Woodruff: THE HEARING MARKED
THE FIRST CHANCE FOR LAWMAKERS
TO QUESTION FORMER I.R.S.
COMMISSIONER DOUG SHULMAN SINCE
NEWS BROKE THAT THE AGENCY HAD
TARGETED CONSERVATIVE GROUPS.
>> I'M DEEPLY, DEEPLY SADDENED
BY THIS WHOLE SET OF EVENTS.
I'VE READ THE I.G.'S REPORT, AND
I VERY MUCH REGRET THAT IT
HAPPENED AND THAT IT HAPPENED ON
MY WATCH.
>> Woodruff: SHULMAN'S FIVE-YEAR
TERM EXPIRED LAST NOVEMBER.
THIS MONTH, A TREASURY
DEPARTMENT INSPECTOR GENERAL
DISCLOSED THAT I.R.S. AGENTS HAD
SINGLED OUT GROUPS SEEKING TAX-
EXEMPT STATUS WITH "TEA PARTY,"
"PATRIOT" OR "9/12" IN THEIR
NAMES.
THE REPORT ALSO REVEALED THAT
SHULMAN LEARNED OF THE PRACTICE
IN MAY OF 2012.
UTAH REPUBLICAN SENATOR ORRIN
HATCH NOTED THAT, TWO MONTHS
BEFORE THAT DATE, SHULMAN TOLD
CONGRESS THERE WAS "ABSOLUTELY
NO TARGETING."
>> MR. SHULMAN, WHY HAVE YOU NOT
COME FORWARD BEFORE TODAY TO
CORRECT THE RECORD AND
ACKNOWLEDGE THAT THERE WAS
IN FACT INAPPROPRIATE SCREENING
OCCURRING IN THE I.R.S., THE
ORGANIZATION THAT YOU HEADED?
>> WHAT I KNEW WAS NOT THE FULL
SET OF FACTS IN THIS REPORT.
WHAT I KNEW SOMETIME IN THE
SPRING OF 2012 WAS THAT THERE
WAS A LIST THAT WAS BEING USED.
I KNEW THAT THE WORD "TEA PARTY"
WAS ON THE LIST.
DIDN'T KNOW WHAT OTHER WORDS
WERE ON THE LIST.
DIDN'T KNOW THE SCOPE AND
SEVERITY OF THIS.
I DIDN'T KNOW IF GROUPS THAT
WERE PULLED IN WERE GROUPS THAT
WOULD HAVE BEEN PULLED IN
ANYWAYS.
>> Woodruff: MICHIGAN DEMOCRAT
DEBBIE STABENOW COMPLAINED THAT
THE TARGETING BY STAFFERS IN A
CINCINNATI REGIONAL OFFICE WENT
ON FOR 18 MONTHS.
>> HOW COULD IT TAKE SO LONG FOR
SENIOR PEOPLE AT THE I.R.S. TO
FIND THE PROBLEM, FIX THE
PROBLEM?
AND WAS THERE NO ONGOING
OVERSIGHT OF THE EMPLOYEES IN
CINCINNATI?
>> I'M NOT THERE TO GO ASK A SET
OF QUESTIONS OF PEOPLE-- WHAT
HAPPENED, WHEN, WHO AND HOW.
>> BUT, WITH ALL DUE RESPECT,
YOU WERE THERE, THOUGH?
>> I WAS THERE.
BUT SINCE THIS ALL CAME TO LIGHT
AND THE FULL SET OF FACTS ARE
THERE, I HAVEN'T BEEN ABLE TO BE
BACK THERE, TALKING WITH PEOPLE
DOING THINGS.
SO, LET ME THOUGH JUST ANSWER
YOUR QUESTION...
>> BUT WHY DIDN'T YOU KNOW WHEN
YOU WERE THERE?
>> I AGREE THAT THIS IS AN ISSUE
THAT WHEN SOMEONE SPOTTED IT,
THEY SHOULD HAVE RUN UP THE
CHAIN, AND THEY DIDN'T.
AND WHY THEY DIDN'T, I DON'T
KNOW.
>> Woodruff: THE NEWS ULTIMATELY
CAME OUT WHEN AN I.R.S.
OFFICIAL, LOIS LERNER, TOOK A
PREARRANGED QUESTION AT A PUBLIC
CONFERENCE ON MAY 10 AND ISSUED
AN APOLOGY.
TODAY, STEVEN MILLER, WHO WAS
OUSTED LAST WEEK AS THE ACTING
I.R.S. COMMISSIONER, SAID IT WAS
HIS IDEA TO GET THE NEWS OUT
THAT WAY.
>> WE HAD OUR RESPONSE, WE
THOUGHT WE SHOULD BEGIN TALKING
ABOUT THIS.
WE THOUGHT WE'D GET OUT AN
APOLOGY.
THE WAY WE DID IT, WE WANTED TO
REACH OUT TO HILL STAFF ABOUT
THE SAME TIME AND COME AND
BRIEF.
IT DID NOT WORK OUT.
OBVIOUSLY, THE ENTIRE THING WAS
AN INCREDIBLY BAD IDEA.
>> Woodruff: THE COMMITTEE ALSO
HEARD FROM J. RUSSELL GEORGE,
THE TREASURY INSPECTOR GENERAL
FOR TAX ADMINISTRATION WHO
CONDUCTED THE AUDIT.
IDAHO REPUBLICAN MIKE CRAPO WAS
SKEPTICAL OF HIS CONCLUSION THAT
I.R.S. AGENTS WERE NOT DRIVEN BY
POLITICS.
>> YOU HAVE SIMPLY THE
REACHED THE CONCLUSION THAT
THERE WAS NONE OR THAT YOU
HAVEN'T FOUND IT?
>> IT'S THE LATTER, THAT WE HAVE
NOT FOUND ANY, SIR.
>> BECAUSE IT SEEMS TO ME THAT
IT'S ALMOST UNBELIEVABLE TO LOOK
AT WHAT'S HAPPENING AND THEN SAY
THERE'S NO POLITICAL MOTIVATION
HERE.
HOW COULD AN AGENCY WITH THE
POWER THAT THE INTERNAL REVENUE
SERVICE HAS ENGAGE IN THIS KIND
OF CONDUCT AND IT NOT BE
POLITICALLY MOTIVATED?
>> Woodruff: THERE WERE ALSO
PLENTY OF QUESTIONS DIRECTED AT
THE WHITE HOUSE AGAIN TODAY, THE
ADMINISTRATION'S TIMELINE
SURROUNDING WHO KNEW WHAT AND
WHEN ABOUT THE ACTIVITIES AT THE
I.R.S. FACED MOUNTING SCRUTINY.
PRESIDENTIAL PRESS SECRETARY JAY
CARNEY SAID MONDAY THAT THE
WHITE HOUSE'S TOP LAWYER AND THE
CHIEF OF STAFF WERE TOLD IN
APRIL ABOUT THE INSPECTOR
GENERAL'S REPORT, BUT THE
PRESIDENT WAS NOT INFORMED.
TODAY, HE SAID:
>> THERE WAS NOTHING THE
PRESIDENT COULD OR SHOULD DO
UNTIL THAT PROCESS WAS
COMPLETED.
AND UPON TELHE
FINAL REPORT, THE PRESIDENT
MOVED VERY QUICKLY TO MAKE CLEAR
HIS FEELING THAT THE CONDUCT
PORTRAYED WITHIN IT WAS
OUTRAGEOUS AND INAPPROPRIATE AND
WRONG.
>> Woodruff: AMID THE QUESTIONS
AND ANSWERS, TEA PARTY GROUPS
PROTESTED OUTSIDE I.R.S. OFFICES
AROUND THE COUNTRY TODAY, AND
THERE WILL BE MORE TOMORROW WHEN
THE HOUSE OVERSIGHT COMMITTEE
HOLDS ITS FIRST HEARING ON THE
MATTER.
>> Ifill: NOW, TO ANOTHER STORY
THAT HAS CAPTURED THE ATTENTION
OF THE NEWS MEDIA AND OF
CONGRESS.
AFTER NEW REVELATIONS ABOUT
EXTENSIVE INVESTIGATIONS
INVOLVING THE ASSOCIATED PRESS
AND FOX NEWS, THREE FORMER
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT OFFICIALS ARE
DEFENDING THE LEAK INQUIRIES.
WRITING IN THE NEW YORK TIMES,
THEY SAID:
WHITE HOUSE PRESS SECRETARY JAY
CARNEY SAID TODAY THE KEY IS TO
STRIKE THE RIGHT BALANCE, BUT
WHAT IS THAT BALANCE?
FOR THAT, WE TURN TO: FLOYD
ABRAMS, A FIRST AMENDMENT LAWYER
WHO ROUTINELY REPRESENTS NEWS
ORGANIZATIONS; AND FORMER
ATTORNEY GENERAL MICHAEL
MUKASEY, NOW AN ATTORNEY IN
PRIVATE PRACTICE IN NEW YORK
CITY.
MICHAEL MUKAY, HSEOW FAR SHOULD
THE GOVERNMENT GO IN THESE KINDS
OF INVESTIGATIONS IN YOUR
OPINION?
>> WELL, THERE ARE RULES AND
PROCEDURES THAT ARE PRESCRIBED
AS TO HOW FAR THEY SHOULD GO AND
WHAT THOSE RULES SAY IS THAT
WHEN IT COMES TO GETTING
INFORMATION ABOUT THE RECORDS --
THE TELEPHONE RECORDS OF A
REPORTER-- WHICH IS THE ISSUE IN
THE A.P. CASE-- THAT THEY ARE
SUPPOSED TO, NUMBER ONE, EXHAUST
OTHER ALTERNATIVES, NUMBER TWO,
OBVIOUSLY, RECOGNIZE THAT WHAT
THEY'RE DEALING WITH IS
SOMETHING THAT TOUCHES ON PRESS
FREEDOM, NEGOTIATE WITH THE NEWS
ORGANIZATION IN QUESTION IF IT'S
POSSIBLE TO DO THAT WITHOUT
PREJUDICING THE INVESTIGATION.
AND LIMIT THE SUBPOENAS, LIMIT
THE MATERIALS SOUGHT TO WHAT IS
ABSOLUTELY NECESSARY.
AND THE QUESTION IS WHETHER ANY
OR ALL OF THAT WAS DONE HERE.
>> Ifill: FLOYD ABRAMS, WHAT DO
YOU ANY WAS ANY OR ALL OF THAT
DONE HERE?
>> WELL, I REALLY DON'T THINK
ENOUGH WAS DONE HERE.
THE ONLY JUSTIFICATION FOR NOT
ASKING, TELLING THE A.P. THAT
THEY WANTED THE PHONE RECORDS IS
THAT DOING SO WOULD INTERFERE
WITH THE INTEGRITY OF THE
INVESTIGATION AND I JUST HAVEN'T
SEEN ANYTHING TO PERSUADE ME
THAT THAT IS SO.
IF THE FEAR HERE WAS-- AND THIS
HAS BEEN SUGGESTED IN SOME
REPORTS ON IT-- THAT A.P. MIGHT
GO TO COURT, THAT'S A TERRIBLE
REASON.
THE A.P. OUGHT TO GO TO COURT TO
DEFEND ITSELF AND DEFEND ITS
TELEPHONE LOGS AND IF THAT TAKES
SOME MORE TIME, WELL, THAT'S
JUST FINE.
THE ONE THING YOU SHOULDN'T DO
IS JUST TO EVADE THE REGULATIONS
BY GOING RIGHT IN THE DIRECTION
OF THE TELEPHONE COMPANY.
>> Ifill: THE ADMINISTRATION HAS
SAID AND PREVIOUS
ADMINISTRATIONS HAVE MADE THIS
ARGUMENT AS WELL THAT THIS IS A
MATTER OF NATIONAL SECURITY.
THAT WHEN SOMEONE LEAKS
SENSITIVE INFORMATION THAT COULD
ENDANGER AMERICAN LIVES ALL BETS
ARE OFF.
IS THAT SOMETHING THAT SOUNDS
RIGHT TO YOU?
FIRST TO YOU, MR. ABRAMS?
>> NOT THAT WAY, NO.
ALL BETS ARE NEVER OFF.
IF THERE'S A NATIONAL SECURITY
ISSUE THERE OUGHT TO BE A VERY
SOPHISTICATED, SERIOUS, SOBER
INVESTIGATION IN WHICH EVERY
EFFORT AS ATTORNEY GENERAL
MUKASEY WAS SETTING FORWARD.
EVERY EFFORT IS MADE FIRST TO
AVOID GOING TO THE JOURNALIST
AND HERE OR IMPOSING ON THEIR
RIGHTS IN ANY WAY.
HERE THEY WENT AFTER A LOT OF
INTERROGATIONS TO BE SURE, BUT
HERE THEY WENT TO THE TELEPHONE
COMPANY INSTEAD OF GOING TO THE
ASSOCIATED PRESS AND I JUST SEE
NO JUSTIFICATION FOR THAT.
>> Ifill: MR. MUKASEY, DID THEY
GO TOO FOR?
>> WELL, THEY SEEM TO HAVE GONE
TOO FAR FROM WHAT I KNOW WITH
THE BREADTH OF THE SUBPOENA.
AS I UNDERSTAND IT, THEY WERE
INVESTIGATING AN INCIDENT THAT
WAS SO CONFIDENTIAL THAT IT WAS
KNOWN ONLY TO VERY FEW PEOPLE IN
GOVERNMENT AND WAS NOT ACTUALLY
BRIEFED EVEN TO THE LEADERSHIP
IN CONGRESS OR TO THE OVERSIGHT
COMMITTEES, THE INTELLIGENCE
COMMITTEES OF CONGRESS.
ONE OF THE PEOPLE WHOSE RECORDS
THEY SUBPOENAED WAS THE
CONGRESSIONAL CORRESPONDENT FOR
THE A.P..
I CAN'T FIGURE OUT FOR THE LIFE
OF ME WHY THAT WAS DONE.
SO THE QUESTION IS REALLY THE
BREADTH OF THE SUBPOENA.
>> Ifill: LET'S TALK FOR --
FINISH THAT THOUGHT.
>> NO, GO AHEAD.
>> Ifill: LET'S TALK ABOUT THE
BREADTH OF THE SUBPOENAS.
WHEN IS IT OKAY -- THE
ADMINISTRATION HAS SAID AMONG
OTHER THINGS THAT THEY WERE
TRYING TO SEARCH FOR THE LEAKER.
IT'S NOT SO MUCH ABOUT THE
REPORTERS BUT THE LEAKERS.
IS THAT THE STANDARD WHICH YOU
CAN IMAGINE APPLYING THAT IT'S
WORTH DOING WHAT YOU HAVE TO DO
IN ORDER TO GET TO THAT LEAK?
>> ABSOLUTELY.
AND THEY WERE THAT IS THE PERSON
WHOM YOU SHOULD FOCUS ON.
THE FIRST PERSON THEY SHOULD
HAVE FOCUSED ON WHEN THEY WERE
DEALING WITH AN OPERATION WITH
ONLY A FEW PEOPLE IS THE FEW
PEOPLE WHO KNEW ABOUT IT.
OBVIOUSLY ONE OF THEM WAS THE
LEAKER AND ONLY WHEN THAT
DOESN'T PROVE FRUITFUL SHOULD
THEY BE LOOKING -- SHOULD THEY
BE CASTING A WIDER NET AND THERE
ONLY THE PEOPLE WHO PARTICIPATED
IN THE REPORT.
AGAIN, I DON'T UNDERSTAND HOW
THE CONGRESSIONAL CORRESPONDENT
IS INVOLVED IN THAT.
>> Ifill: MR. ABRAMS, I WANT TO
TALK TO YOU ABOUT THE FOX NEWS
CASE, WHICH IS A LITTLE BIT
DIFFERENT.
IT'S ABOUT WHETHER SOMEBODY
SHOULD HAVE BEEN -- WHETHER
SOMEBODY REALLY WAS -- SHOULD BE
INVOLVED IN A CRIMINAL INQUIRY,
WHETHER THEY SHOULD BE HELD
CRIMINALLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THEt
[TECHNICAL DIFFICULTIES]
WHAT'S THE PROPER BALANCE AND
HOW DO YOU NEGOTIATE YOUR WAY TO
THE MIDDLE IN AN ARGUMENT LIKE
THAT?
>> WELL, YOU TRY TO STRIKE THE
BALANCE.
YOU TRY TO FIND SOME SORT OF WAY
TO GO ABOUT YOUR INVESTIGATION
IN A WAY BEST DESIGNED TO AVOID
INTERFERING WI TTHHE ABILITY OF
THE PRESS TO GO ABOUT ITS
MISSION.
AND THE WORST WAY YOU CAN DO
THAT IS BY STARTING TO ACCUSE
JOURNALISTS THEMSELVES OF BEING
PARTICIPANTS IN CRIMINAL
CONDUCT.
I MEAN, THAT IS THE END.
THAT'S THE MOST RADICAL CHANGE
IN POLICY AT F THIS IS A POLICY
THAT WE'VE MEAN?
EARSY.
>> Ifill: MR. MUKASEY?
>> WELL, THERE ARE TWO PROBLEMS
WITH IT THAT I SEE.
NUMBER ONE IS THAT IT SUBVERB IT
IS ABILITY OF THE AMERICAN
PEOPLE TO FIND OUT INFORMATION.
OBVIOUSLY IF -- PEOPLE ARE NOT
INSIDE THE GOVERNMENT.
THE ONLY PEOPLE INSIDE THE
GOVERNMENT ARE THE PEOPLE WHO
WORK FOR THE GOVERNMENT.
AND IF THE ONLY WAY THAT THE
PEOPLE HAVE OF FINDING OUT WHAT
THE THEIR GOVERNMENT IS DOING IS
BY WHAT IS AUTHORIZED AND
REPORTED BY THE GOVERNMENT OR
LEAKED BY GOVERNMENT OFFICIALS--
AND, OF COURSE, THAT GOES ON ALL
THE TIME-- THEN THE ABILITY OF
PEOPLE TO MAKE UP THEIR OWN
MINDS ABOUT WHAT THEIR
GOVERNMENT IS DOING IS
SUBVERTED.
IN ADDITION, OBVIOUSLY, IF
PEOPLE WHO SPEAK TO REPORTERS
THINK THAT THEIR RECORDS AND
THEIR IDENTITY IS BEING MADE
KNOWN TO THE GOVERNMENT OR
REPORTERS THINK THAT THEIR
RECORDS AND ACTIVITIES ARE BEING
MADE KNOWN TO THE GOVERNMENT
THEY ARE GOING TO BE HESITANT
FOR THE REPORTER SIDE IN SEEKING
INFORMATION AND FROM THE SOURCES
SIDE IN DISCLOSING IT.
ALSO, IT IMPEDES -- THAT'S THE
FIRST PROBLEM IS THE PROBLEM OF
RUNNING A DEMOCRATIC SYSTEM.
THE SECOND PROBLEM IS THAT THE
NEXT TIME THERE'S A NATIONAL
SECURITY ISSUE WE'RE GOING TO
HAVE A SITUATION LIKE THIS ONE
IN THE STORY OF THE LITTLE BOY
WHO CRIED WOLF.
WHEN THE GOVERNMENT CRIES
NATIONAL SECURITY NOBODY WILL
BELIEVE THEM."
>> Ifill: FORMER ATTORNEY
GENERAL MICHAEL MUKASEY AND
FIRST AMENDMENT LAWYER FLOYD
ABRAMS, THANK YOU BOTH FOR
JOINING US.
>> Brown: NOW, THE TECH GIANT
APPLE IS THE SUBJECT OF
CRITICISM AND SCRUTINY ON
CAPITOL HILL FOR USING TAX
PRACTICES THAT
MARGARET WARNER HAS THE STORY.
>> NOW, APPLE EXECUTIVES WANT
THE PUBLIC TO FOCUS ON THE U.S.
TAXES THE COMPANY HAS PAID, BUT
THE REAL ISSUE IS THE BILLIONS
IN TAXES THAT IT HAS NOT PAID.
>> Warner: CHAIRMAN CARL LEVIN
LAID OUT THE FINDINGS OF HIS
SENATE PANEL'S INVESTIGATIVE
REPORT TODAY.
GIANT APPLE, MAKER OF THE
iPHONE, iPAD AND OTHER POPULAR
DEVICES HAS FOR YEARS USED A
COMPLEX WEB OF IRISH
SUBSIDIARIES TO AVOID PAYING
BILLIONS OF DOLLARS IN TAXES TO
THE U.S. OR ANY OTHER COUNTRY.
THAT STRATEGY MEANT APPLE PAID
LITTLE OR NO CORPORATE TAXES ON
AT LEAST $74 BILLN INIO THE PAST
FOUR YEARS, ACCORDING TO THE
REPORT.
SAVED APPLE AT LEAST $9 BILLION
IN U.S. TAXES LAST YEAR, RANKING
MEMBER JOHN McCAIN SHOWED THE
OUTRAGE WAS BIPARTISAN.
>> TODAY, APPLE HAS OVER 100
BILLION, MORE THAN TWO THIRDS OF
ITS TOTAL PROFITS STASHED AWAY
IN AN OFFSHORE ACCOUNT.
THAT'S OVER $100 BILLION THAT
ARE NOT CURRENTLY SUBJECT TO US
CORPORATE INCOME TAXES AND
THEREFORE CANNOT BE USED TO HELP
EASE THE DEFICIT OR HELP
INVIGORATE THE SAME AMERICAN
ECONOMY THAT FOSTERED THE
CREATION OF THIS LARGE
CORPORATION IN THE FIRST PLACE.
>> Warner: AFTER BEING SWORN IN,
APPLE C.E.O. TIM COOK SAID HIS
COMPANY IS AMERICA'S LARGEST
CORPORATE TAXPAYER, AND HE
OFFERED A VIGOROUS DEFENSE OF
THE COMPANY'S PRACTICES.
>> WE PAY ALL THE TAXES WE OWE,
EVERY SINGLE DOLLAR.
WE NOT ONLY COMPLY WITH ALL
LAWS, WE COMPLY WITH THE SPIRIT
OF THE LAWS.
WE DON'T DEPEND ON TAX GIMMICKS.
>> Warner: NOBODY WAS ALLEGING
THAT APPLE HAS DONE ANYTHING
ILLEGAL, AND APPLE'S OVERSEAS
SALES NOW OUTSTRIP ITS REVENUES
FROM SALES AT HOME.
RATHER, TODAY'S HEARING WAS
MEANT TO SPOTLIT HOGHW APPLE AND
OTHER MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS
EXPLOIT LOOPHOLES IN U.S. TAX
LAWS, LOOPHOLES COOK SAID HE
BELIEVES NEED TO BE FIXED.
>> APPLE HAS ALWAYS BELIEVED IN
THE SIMPLE, NOT THE COMPLEX.
YOU CAN SEE THIS IN OUR PRODUCTS
AND IN THE WAY WE CONDUCT
OURSELVES.
IT IS IN THIS SPIRIT THAT WE
RECOMMEND A DRAMATIC
SIMPLIFICATION OF THE CORPORATE
TAX CODE.
>> Warner: LEVIN CLOSED THE
HEARING, THE SECOND TO EXAMINE
THIS ISSUE, BY SAYING "ONE WAY
OR ANOTHER" THE CURRENT
LOOPHOLES CANNOT REMAIN IN
PLACE.
AND MORE NOW ON THE REPORT AND
THE APPLE STORY.
CHARLES DUHIGG HAS BEEN COVERING
IT FOR THE "NEW YORK TIMES" AND
JOINS ME NOW.
CHARLES, WELCOME BACK.
FIRST, EXPLAIN TO US HOW DID
APPLE STRUCTURE ITSELF SO THAT
IT COULD AVOID PAYING TAXES ON
ITS OVERSEAS INCOME TO ANY
GOVERNMENT?
I MEAN, SENATOR LEVIN ACCUSED
APPLE OF USING GHOST COMPANIES.
>> IT -- APPLE TOOK ADVANTAGE OF
LOOPHOLES THAT EXIST IN OUR TAX
SYSTEM AND EVERY TAX SYSTEM.
FOR INSTANCE, THE UNITED STATES
SAYS THAT A COMPANY SHOULD BE
TAXED WHERE IT'S BASED.
FOR INSTANCE, IF YOU HAVE A
SUBSIDIARY IN IRELAND THAN
IRELAND SHOULD COLLECT TAXES ON
YOUR REVENUE.
IRELAND, ON THE OTHER HAND, SAYS
IS COMPANY SHOULD BE TAXED BASED
ON WHERE IT'S CONTROLLED OUT OF.
SO IF IT'S RUN BY PEOPLE IN
CALIFORNIA, THEN UNITED STATES
SHOULD TAX YOU.
APPLE WAS ABLE TO TAKE ADVANTAGE
OF THESE CONFLICTING
PHILOSOPHIES AND SAY "WE'VE GOT
A COMPANY THAT'S TECHNICALLY
INCORPORATED IN IRELAND, IT'S
RUN BY PEOPLE OUT OF CALIFORNIA
AND SO THERE'S NO TAXING
AUTHORITY."
AND AS A RESULT, MANY OF ITS --
MANY OF ITS SUBSIDIARIES DON'T
PAY ANY TAXES ON TENS OF
BILLIONS OF DOLLARS OF REVENUE
AND, IN FACT, DON'T EVEN FILE
TAX RETURNS TO ANYONE ON EARTH
BECAUSE THEY SLIP THROUGH THESE
CRACKS.
>> Warner: NOW THE ATMOSPHERE AT
THAT HEARING WITH ONE EXCEPTION
WAS PRETTY MUCH VERY CRITICAL OF
APPLE.
WHAT WAS HAPPEN'S DEFENSE, TIM
COOK'S DEFENSE OTHER THAN WE DO
EVERYTHING -- WE PAY WHAT WE
LEGALLY OWE?
>> THAT'S EXACTLY TIM COOK'S
DEFENSE AND APPLE'S DEFENSE IS
TO SAY, LISTEN, WE FOLLOW THE
LAW.
WE PAY WHAT WE'RE SUPPOSED TO IN
EVERY COUNTRY.
IT'S NOT OUR FAULT IF YOU DON'T
LIKE HOW THE LAW IS WRITTEN.
SECONDARILY WHAT MR. COOK AND
OTHERS SAY IS LISTEN, WHEN
COMPANIES MAKE MONEY, WHEN THEY
GET THESE REVENUES THEY USE THEM
TO CREATE JOBS AND TO CREATE NEW
PRODUCTS AND TO MAKE THE WORLD A
BETTER PLACE.
AND SO WE DESERVE TO HAVE THAT
MONEY SO WE CAN USE IT.
AND FINALLY WHAT MR. COOK SAYS
IS THAT AT THIS POINT A MAJORITY
OF APPLE'S SALES OCCUR OUTSIDE
OF THE UNITED STATES AND SO AS A
RESULT IT SHOULDN'T BE SUBJECT
TO U.S. TAXATION.
NOW, THAT'S SIGNIFICANTLY
DIFFERENT FROM WHAT, FOR
INSTANCE, THE CONGRESSIONAL
PANEL AS WELL AS THE LAW OF THE
UNITED STATES SAYS WHICH IS THAT
THE U.S. BELIEVES THAT WE SHOULD
TAX WHERE ECONOMIC VALUE IS
CREATED.
SO IF YOU BUY AN ITUNES SONG IN
PORTUGAL AND IT'S DOWNLOADED
FROM A SERVER IN GREECE AND IT'S
CREATED BY A RECORDING ARTIST
THAT LIVES IN NEW YORK AND THE
PROGRAM THAT MADE IT WORK IS BY
SOMEONE IN CALIFORNIA, THE U.S.
SAYS WELL, WHEREVER THAT VALUE
WAS CREATED-- IN THIS CASE THE
UNITED STATES-- THAT'S WHERE
TAXATION SHOULD OCCUR.
AND THERE'S A FUNDAMENTAL
DIFFERENCE OF OPINION ON HOW
THAT LAW SHOULD BE INTERPRETED.
>> Warner: IS IT CLEAR THAT ALL
THE MONEY IN THESE THREE BIG
IRISH SUBSIDIARIES WAS, IN FACT,
ALL -- AT LEAST EARNED OVERSEAS
IN TERMS OF THE SALES OCCURRING
OVERSEAS?
>> IT -- I THINK IT'S PRETTY
CLEAR THAT THE SALES OCCURRED
OVERSEAS.
NO ONE IS SAYING THAT APPLE IS
MISLEADING ABOUT WHERE THE SALES
THEMSELVES OCCUR.
THE QUESTION IS HOW THAT REVENUE
IS PASSED BETWEEN SUBSIDIARIES.
SO ONE OF THE THINGS THAT APPLE
DOES AS WELL AS ALMOST EVERY
OTHER TECH COMPANY IS THAT THEY
SELL THEIR OWN INTELLECTUAL
PROPERTY TO ONE OF THEIR
SUBSIDIARIES.
SO APPLE MIGHT INVENT ITUNES IN
CALIFORNIA, BUT THEN SELL THE
INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY, THE
PATENTS AROUND IT, TO A
SUBSIDIARY IN IRELAND.
THEN IRELAND CHARGES OTHER PARTS
OF APPLE FOR THE USE OF THE
ITUNES TECHNOLOGY.
SO AS A RESULT THE MONEY ENDS UP
IN IRELAND IN THEORY.
AND THIS'S WHERE IT'S EITHER
TAXED OR NOT TAXED DEPENDING
UPON HOW THE LAW IS RESTRUCTURED
>> Warner: NOW, THIS IS THIS
ISN'T THE ONLY COMPANY THIS
COMMITTEE HAS FOCUSED ON.
HOW WIDESPREAD IS THE PRACTICE
OF -- WITH OVERSEAS SUBSIDIARIES
SOMEHOW AVOIDING U.S. TAXES?
>> IT'S INCREDIBLY WIDESPREAD.
NOW, WHAT THE CONGRESSIONAL
PANEL AS WELL AS OUR OWN
REPORTING HAS INDICATED IS THAT
APPLE IS FOR MORE AGGRESSIVE IN
THIS AND USES EITHER PIONEERS
AND CREATES TACTICS OR USES
TACTICS THAT WE'RE NOT AWARE OF
ANY OTHER COMPANY USING.
THAT BEING SAID, THERE'S GENERAL
POLICY OF PARTICULAR TECH
COMPANIES TRYING TO LOWER THEIR
TAX BILL BY MOVING INTELLECTUAL
PROPERTY AND REVENUES AROUND THE
WORLD.
ALMOST EVERY SINGLE COMPANY DOES
THIS.
NO C.E.O. WANTS TO SAY "I'M THE
ONE WHO VOLUNTEERED THE PAY THE
MOST TAXES."
AND PART OF THE PROBLEM HERE IS
THAT WE HAVE A TAX SYSTEM THAT
WAS WRITTEN -- THE LAST TIME IT
WAS OVERHAULED WAS IN THE 1980s
WHEN THE
PORT THEIR INTELLECTUAL
PROPERTY AND THIS COMPANIES TAKE
THEIR FAIR SHARE.
CHANGE IS GOING TO OCCUR BUT
THERE'S A BIG DEBATE OVER WHAT
THE FAIR SHARE MEANS AND WHO
SHOULD BE PAYING IT.
>> Warner: CHARLES DUHIGG, "NEW
YORK TIMES."
>> Ifill: YOU CAN WATCH ALL OF
APPLE C.E.O. TIM COOK'S
TESTIMONY ON OUR YOUTUBE PAGE.
>> Brown: AND FINALLY, THE
LEGACY OF SALLY RIDE.
YESTERDAY, PRESIDENT OBAMA
ANNOUNCED HE WOULD CONFER THE
PRESIDENTIAL MEDAL OF FREEDOM,
THE NATION'S HIGHEST CIVILIAN
AWARD, ON A WOMAN REMEMBERED AS
A PIONEER IN SPACE TRAVEL AND AN
EDUCATOR AND ROLE MODEL FOR
WOMEN IN THE SCIENCES.
IT WAS 1983 WHEN SALLY RIDE MADE
HISTORY AS THE FIRST AMERICAN
WOMAN IN SPACE.
RIDE WAS JUST 32 AT THE TIME,
AND SHE SAID THEN THAT SHE
THOUGHT HER AGE WAS MORE
IMPORTANT THAN HER GENDER.
>> I GUESS THAT I WAS MAYBE MORE
EXCITED ABOUT GETTING A CHANCE
TO FLY EARLY THAN I WAS ABOUT
GETTING TO BE THE FIRST WOMAN.
>> Brown: RIDE WAS A PHYSICIST
AND ONE OF THE FIRST SIX WOMEN
CHOSEN FOR THE PROGRAM.
SHE WOULD FLY INTO SPACE AGAIN
JUST A YEAR LATER.
BUT WHEN HER FLYING DAYS WERE
OVER, SHE CONTINUED TO PLAY AN
IMPORTANT ROLE IN THE SPACE
PROGRAM.
SHE SERVED ON TWO INVESTIGATIVE
BOARDS THAT EXAMINED WHAT WENT
WRONG IN THE CHALLENGER AND
COLUMBIA DISASTERS.
AND AFTER HER NASA YEARS, RIDE
FOCUSED ON ENGAGING YOUNG PEOPLE
IN SCIENCE, PARTICULARLY GIRLS
AND WOMEN.
IN A 2008 VIDEO, SHE PROMOTED
"EARTHKAM," AN EFFORT TO PUT
CAMERAS ON THE SPACE STATION,
ALLOWING MIDDLE SCHOOLERS TO
TAKE PICTURES FROM SPACE.
>> WE PROVIDE A WEB SITE THAT
ALLOWS THEM TO DO THEIR
CALCULATIONS, FIGURE OUT EXACTLY
WHEN THE STATION IS GOING TO BE
GOING OVER THAT PART OF THE
EARTH, AND THEN COMMAND THE
CAMERA TO TAKE A PICTURE AT THAT
SECOND.
>> Brown: SCIENCE EDUCATION
REMAINED SALLY RIDE'S LIFE'S
WORK UNTIL SHE WAS OVERCOME BY
PANCREATIC CANCER LAST JULY AT
THE AGE OF 61.
A CELEBRATION OF THE LIFE AND
WORK OF SALLY RIDE WAS HELD LAST
NIGHT AT THE KENNEDY CENTER HERE
IN WASHINGTON.
OUR OWN SCIENCE CORRESPONDENT,
MILES O'BRIEN, WHO KNEW RIDE,
SERVED AS THE EMCEE.
I TALKED WITH HIM YESTERDAY JUST
BEFORE THE EVENT.
WELCOME, MILES.
>> GOOD TO BE HERE, JEFF.
>> Brown: WAS SHE AWARE, SALLY
RIDE AWARE OF BEING A PIONEER
AND DID SHE FEEL THAT
RESPONSIBILITY?
>> RESPONSIBILITY AND SHE HAD A
LOT OF DISCOMFORT WITH IT.
YOU KNOW, IT'S INTERESTING.
SHE WENT INTO SPACE FOR THE
ADVENTURE AND NEVER REALLY
INTENDED TO BECOME PART OF THE
MYTHOLOGY.
YOU KNOW, I THINK WE USE THE
TERM "HERO" IN OUR CULTURE AND
VERY FEW PEOPLE FULLY QUALIFY.
I THINK SHE DOES QUALIFY BECAUSE
OF WHAT SHE ACCOMPLISHED AND THE
INSPIRATION SHE GAVE OTHERS BUT
SHE WAS ALWAYS RELUCTANT TO BASK
IN THAT.
THE FAME WAS SOMETHING SHE SAW
AS A TWO-EDGED SWORD.
IT ALLOWED HER TO GET PHONE
CALLS ANSWERED.
GOT HER THROUGH SOME DOORS BUT
SHE WAS NEVER COMFORTABLE WITH
THE ADULATION THAT CAME ALONG
WITH IT.
>> Brown: DESCRIBE A LITTLE BIT
MORE OF HER WIDER IMPACT ON THE
SPACE PROGRAM, RIGHT?
BECAUSE IT WENT EVEN BEYOND THE
RIDE THAT SHE DID.
THE RIDE.
>> THE RIDE!
YES, IT WASN'T JUST THE RIDE.
THAT'S A GREAT WAY OF PUTTING
IT.
FOR HER THE RIDE WAS PART OF THE
LARGER PICTURE.
SHE HAD TREMENDOUS PASSION FOR
SCIENCE AND THE ROLE THAT WOMEN
CAN PLAY IN IT AND REALLY SET
ABOUT TO BE AN INSPIRATION TO
GIRLS EVERYWHERE AND DID THIS
WITH HER SALLY RIDE SCIENCE
PROGRAM AND OTHER PROGRAMS SHE
GOT INVOLVED IN TO TRY TO -- TO
GET YOUNG GIRLS INTERESTED IN
THE STEM FIELDS, AS SHE CALLED
IT-- SCIENCE, TECHNOLOGY,
ENGINEERING AND MATHEMATICS.
THAT WAS HER LIFE'S MISSION.
YOU TALK TO A LOT OF ASTRONAUTS
AND THEIR MISSION WAS TO GO
SPACE.
FOR HER SPACE WAS A SPRINGBOARD
TO DO SOMETHING ELSE.
>> Brown: WHERE DID THAT COME
FROM?
>> I THINK FOR SOME PEOPLE IT'S
ABOUT THE RIDE, IT'S ABOUT THE
SPEED.
FOR HER THERE WAS SOMETHING
DEEPER ENGRAINED IN HER.
I THINK'S A REAL SENSE OF A
DESIRE TO ACHIEVE AND A DESIRE
FOR WOMEN TO BE ON AN EQUAL
PLAYING FIELD WITH MEN,
ESPECIALLY WHEN IT CAME TO THESE
TECHNICAL FIELDS WHERE THERE'S
HUGE DISCREPANCY.
>> Brown: TELL US HOW SPENT HER
YEARS AFTER THE SHUTTLE
EXPERIENCES, PARTICULARLY TRYING
TO INVOKE -- I MEAN INSTILL
THESE STEM SUBJECTS.
>> SHE WAS ALL ABOUT EDUCATION
AND FINDING WAYS TO INSPIRE
YOUNG PEOPLE, PARTICULARLY
GIRLS.
AND SHE DID IT IN INTERESTING
WAYS BY HAVING CAMERAS IN SPACE
THAT ALLOWED KIDS TO PARTICIPATE
AND BE A PART OF IT.
BY GIVING THEM THE ABILITY TO BE
A PART OF SCIENCE FAIRS THAT
ALLOWED THEM TO BUILD THINGS AND
THINK OF IDEAS AND DREAM GREAT
THINGS.
SHE REACHED A LOT OF YOUNG
PEOPLE BY DOING THIS.
OF COURSE THE PROBLEM IS SO MUCH
BIGGER THAN ONE PERSON.
SHE COMMITTED HER LIFE THAT THAT
AND IN ADDITION TO THAT SHE
BECAME A VERY SAGE PRESENCE AT
NASA.
SHE WAS NASA'S CONSCIENCE IN
MANY WAYS.
>> Brown: WELL, EXPLAIN THAT.
PART OF IT WAS THE DISASTERS WHO
SERVED ON THE COMMISSIONS.
>> SHE SERVED ON BOTH
COMMISSIONS, POST-CHALLENGER
POST-COLOMBIA.
THAT SAYS SOMETHING ABOUT THE
TIME SHE -- THAT SHOWS TESTIMONY
INTEREST SHE HELD.
AND IT WAS VERY IMPORTANT TOER
IN THE WAKE OF THOSE ACCIDENTS
THAT NASA GET IT RIGHT FOR
FUTURE.
NOT -- SHE KNEW IT WAS DANGEROUS
BUT SHE KNEW THAT SPACE WAS
IMPORTANT TO STAY IN SPACE TO
CONTINUE THAT ENGAGEMENT WITH
YOUNG PEOPLE.
>> Brown: WHEN YOU SAY
CONSCIENCE WITH NASA IT'S THAT
AND THAT KIND OF THING?
>> IT'S INTERESTING.
I ALWAYS THINK OF HER -- NEIL
ARMSTRONG WAS ALWAYS THOUGHT OF
AS THE MOST CEREBRAL OF THE
"APOLLO" ASTRONAUTS.
I THINK OF SALLY RIDE AS THE
NEIL ARMSTRO OFNG HER ERA.
THAT VINTAGE OF SHUTTLE
ASTRONAUTS WHO THOUGHT ABOUT
SPACE AS A MEANS TO TALKING
ABOUT MUCH LARGER THINGS.
IS THERE SOMETHING LARGER THAN
SPACE?
I DON'T KNOW.
>> Brown: IT'S INTERESTING
LOOKING AT THE SETUP PIECE YOU
FORGET HOW YOUNG SHE WAS AND THE
EXCITEMENT SHE TALKS ABOUT NOT
BEING A WOMAN BUT JUST GETTING
UP SO YOUNG.
>> YEAH, I THINK IT'S -- YOU
KNOW, AS I SAY, I THINK SHE WAS
NOT EXACTLY READY FAR, FOR THE
KIND OF EMBRACE SHE GOT BY THE
AMERICAN PUBLIC AND GUESS WHAT?
HERE'S A REALITY CHECK, FOLKS.
IT'S GOING TO BE THE 30-IER
ANNIVERSARY FOR THE FLIGHT.
HARD TO IMAGINE HOW MUCH OUR
COUNTRY -- HOW MUCH WE'VE COME
AND GONE SINCE THEN.
INTERESTINGLY, THOUGH, THAT
ISSUE THAT SHE'S CARED SO MUCH
ABOUT, SCIENCE, TECHNOLOGY,
ENGINEERING AND MATHEMATICS
EDUCATION REMAINS A PROBLEM AND
THAT DISCREMESY ONLY CONTINUES
TO GROW AMONG MEN AND SWIPL SO
THERE'S STILL WORK TO BE DONE.
>> Brown: AND AS A PERSON YOU
KNEW HER.
I MEAN, YOU SAID THAT SHE DIDN'T
-- SHE DIDN'T SEEK THE
SPOTLIGHT.
>> SHE WAS A DETERMINED PERSON,
WHEN SHE CALLED AND SHE WOULD
CALL FREQUENTLY THERE WASN'T
MUCH TIME FOR SMALL TALK.
SHE WAS ON A MISSION ALWAYS AND
SHE WANTED TO TALK ABOUT THINGS
THAT WERE IMPORTANT TO HER AND I
HAD THE GOOD FORTUNE TO HAVER IN
MY HOUSE AND I CONFIDED TO N HER
AT THE TIME THAT I HAD WORKED
OUT A DEAL TO FLY TO SPACE ON
THE SHUTTLE AND GO TO THE
INTERNATIONAL SPACE STATION AT
THAT TIME WITH CNN AND SHE
DIDN'T MISS A BEAT, SHE STARTED
TALKING ABOUT ALL THE WAYS WE
COULD PARTNER TOGETHER TO HELP
OUT YOUNG PEOPLE THAT SHE CARED
SO DEARLY ABOUT.
SO IT WAS ALWAYS MOVING FORWARD
FOR HER.
>> Brown: MILES O'BRIEN ON THE
LIFE AND WORK OF SALLY RIDE.
THANK YOSO MU UCH.
>> YOU'RE WELCOME, JEFF.
>> >> Ifill: AGAIN, THE MAJOR
DEVELOPMENTS OF THE DAY.
RESCUE CREWS SIFTED THROUGH THE
WRECKAGE OF MOORE, OKLAHOMA,
WINDING DOWN A SEARCH FOR
SURVIVORS OF YESTERDAY'S MONSTER
TORNADO.
AND SENATORS PRESSED THE FORMER
HEAD OF THE INTERNAL REVENUE
SERVICE, DOUGLAS SHULMAN, ABOUT
TARGETING CONSERVATIVE GROUPS.
HE SAID HE DIDN'T TELL CONGRESS
BECAUSE HE KNEW AN INSPECTOR
GENERAL WAS ALSO INVESTIGATING.
>> Brown: ONLINE, SOCIAL MEDIA
SITES HELP GROUPS MOBILIZE
AROUND A COMMON CAUSE.
BUT WHAT IF THEIR MESSAGE IS ONE
OF HATOR IE NTOLERANCE?
HARI SREENIVASAN TELLS US MORE.
>> Sreenivasan: THE SIMON
WIESENTHAL CENTER, AN
ORGANIZATION DEVOTED TO
COMBATING GLOBAL RACISM, WORKS
WITH SERVICE PROVIDERS AND
SOCIAL NETWORKS TO IDENTIFY AND
DISABLE USERS WITH OBJECTIONABLE
CONTENT.
LEARN MORE ON THE RUNDOWN.
ARE YOU 50 OR OLDER AND
SEARCHING FOR A JOB?
ASK THE HEADHUNTER'S NICK
CORCODILOS SAYS THE BEST THING
YOU CAN DO IS TO SHOW A
PROSPECTIVE EMPLOYER EXACTLY HOW
YOU'LL DO THAT JOB.
THAT'S ON "MAKING SENSE."
ALL THAT AND MORE IS ON OUR WEB
SITE, www.newshour.pbs.org.
GWEN?
>> Ifill: AND THAT'S THE
NEWSHOUR FOR TONIGHT.
ON WEDNESDAY, WE'LL HAVE AN ON-
THE-GROUND REPORT FROM OKLAHOMA
AS THE TOWN OF MOORE STRUGGLES
TO DIG OUT FROM THE RUBBLE.
I'M GWEN IFILL.
>> Brown: AND I'M JEFFREY BROWN.
WE'LL SEE YOU ONLINE AND AGAIN
HERE TOMORROW EVENING.
THANKS FOR JOINING US.
GOOD NIGHT.